# Scientific Labs of the Future: An Ecosystem for Mult-Domain Autonomous Science

## Speaker: Rob Moore
 - Director Interconnected Science Ecosystem and Labs of the Future Inititives

Summary:
How can we leverage AI in science in our ecosystem and resources?
  - Stone, metal, semiconductor, information age
  - Entering AI age
  - Fast adoption of AI tech compared to other big tech (google, facebook, etc.)
Ecosystem for science
  - interoperability
  - flexibility
  - scalability
Scientific method has changed - no longer 

AI-Orchestrated Autonomous and Connected Research Ecosystem
  - AI Agent drive autonomous experiments with Humans in/on/out of the workflow loop

Use assistants to aid in science

Systems of Systems architecture
  - break down experimental tasks into smallest components, each component is a system
  - microservice architecture, simple message passing
  - message abstractions allow for distributed labs to work with each other
  - E2E connections - connect instruments to hi-perform computing

Solutions
  - proposed soln can be using CV and NN to automatically find features of interest
  - 3d prints can be senstive to parameters or have strange structures/weaknesses due to printing process
    - model the 3d print, can view in a 3d fashion
      - reuse the features of interest 3d model thing from above!
  - Electric grid - takes several weeks to simulate 0.2s
    - use AI to optimize grid
  - Autonomous Chemistry Lab
    - can use AI to analyze

Co-Design
  - one group works on ecosystem; other works with domain experts to adapt to ecosystem

LLMs
  - trained on scientific journals
    - biased towards positive results

AI Agents
  - need to prepare science domain for AI
  - a lot of scientific data is physical, how to convert to digital?
  
AI sucks at extrapolation
  - need to fuse datasets so the AI can think holistically

use nested workflow to accomplish e2e science

role of humans change

## Summary
This seminar focuses on the feasibility of an ecosystem for autonomous, multi-domain laboratories. Specifically, it introduces a micro-service-based system for sharing technologies and data results between labs so that scientific advancements can be made both collaboratively and remotely. The speaker points to an example where the same 3D modeling representation of nuclear data and 3D printing data can be substituted interchangeably, reducing redundancy in software development costs. Due to the complexity of the ecosystem, there must be two distinct groups that maintain the ecosystem so it remains usable - one group manages the ecosystem itself while the other group adapts the tools in the ecosystem to the targeted domain. This allows for co-development of the ecosystem without compromising on complexity. Additionally, use of state-of-the-art advancements such as LLMs play a large part in the ecosystem, automating laborious tasks such as tedious experiment orchestration and analysis. There are some issues that are currently faced with using LLMs in this ecosystem, namely the training data for the LLMs are usually digitially published scientific journals - which are strongly biased towards positive results. Additionally, non-digital media is difficult to be processed for LLM training, causing a scenario where the LLM may not learn the correct information if it is not AI-ready for processing. Combined with a human-in-the-loop approach, this ecosystem has the potential to speed up traditional scientific processes and allow for more collaboration across laboratories and universities.
I would recommend Dr. Moore as a VT faculty member in the CS department. I think he would be a fantastic professor as he has a keen ability to break down complex topics into manageable chunks. He also seems very knowledgeable about his topic matter, as well as having cross-disciplinary experience. He would also fit well as a research advisor, as he has a proven track record of successful, impactful research projects.  


Recommendation:
Would you take their class?

Would you choose them as your research advisor?

Would you invite them to serve on your advisory committee?
