# Quantum Computing System Designs

Speaker: Hezi Zhang

Quantum computing has a bottleneck in scaling as phyical constraints limit the ability for quantum computers to scale efficiently. Co-design between software and hardware are integral to mitigating software limitations and software stake is key to scaling complicated hardware. Cost-effective development of future hardware should be guided on overall system performance. Traditionally, scaling up monolithic quantum devices is difficult, which is why a modular must be taken. As a result, qubits need to be swapped sequentially through a long path, which slows down performance. Therefore, this seminar presents a quantum highway that allows for distant CNOT, enabling fast entanglement and measurement. The catch is that the highway is consumed once used, so it must be built again after each use. Pure gate-based approaches cannot build the highway quickly, so measurement computations must be used to broaden the design space. To find a suitable highway layout, you must first ensure that each qubit has easy access to the highway, then allocate the highway with a suitable density such that qubits aren't wasted and won't need SWAPs. DQC can be improved by rearranging proactively, and adaptive rollback allows parallization without the risk of bad scheduling. Future work includes integrating different qubit technologies, combining classical with quantum computing approaches, and co-design with AI.
I would recommend Dr. Zhang for a position of faculty at Virginia Tech. I would be hesitant to take their class due to the speed at which they speak, causing a lapse in comprehension when explaining complex topics. However, I think that I would work with Zhang as a research advisor, as they seem to have developed interesting research topics and have deep knowledge on the subject matter. Zhang would be an invaluable addition to the CS department due to the prevalence and rapid expansion of quantum computing.
